Strange memories on this nervous night in Las Vegas. Five years later?
Six? It seems like a lifetime, or at least a Main Era - the kind of
peak that never comes again. San Francisco in the middle sixties was a
very special time and place to be a part of. Maybe it meant something.
Maybe not, in the long run... but no explanation, no mix of words or
music or memories can touch that sense of knowing that you were there
and alive in that corner of time and the world. Whatever it meant...

History is hard to know, because of all the hired bullshit, but even
without being sure of "history" it seems entirely reasonable to think
that every now and then the energy of a whole generation comes to a
head in a long fine flash, for reasons that nobody really understands
at the time - and which never explain, in retrospect, what actually
happened.

My central memory of that time seems to hang on one or five or maybe
forty nights - or very early mornings - when I left the Fillmore
half-crazy and, instead of going home, aimed the big 650 Lightning
across the Bay Bridge at a hundred miles an hour wearing L. L. Bean
shorts and a Butte sheepherder's jacket... booming through the
Treasure Island tunnel at the lights of Oakland and Berkeley and
Richmond, not quite sure which turn-off to take when I got to the
other end (always stalling at the toll-gate, too twisted to find
neutral while I fumbled for change) ... but being absolutely certain
that no matter which way I went I would come to a place where people
were just as high and wild as I was: No doubt at all about that.

There was madness in any direction, at any hour. If not across the
Bay, then up the Golden Gate or down 101 to Los Altos or La
Honda... You could strike sparks anywhere. There was a fantastic
universal sense that whatever we were doing was right, that we were
winning...

And that, I think, was the handle - that sense of inevitable victory
over the forces of Old and Evil. Not in any mean or military sense; we
didnâ€™t need that. Our energy would simply prevail. There was no point
in fighting - on our side or theirs. We had all the momentum; we were
riding the crest of a high and beautiful wave.

So now, less than five years later, you can go up on a steep hill in
Las Vegas and look West, and with the right kind of eyes you can
almost see the high-water mark - that place where the wave finally
broke and rolled back.
